     
     A right for European Union is one of basic sources of right in the modern world. Examining his competense, it is possible to mark some his features and moments.
     The principle of subsidiarity and the principle of proportionality govern the exercise of the EU’s competences. 
     In areas in which the European Union does not have exclusive competence, the principle of subsidiarity seeks to protect the capacity of the Member States to take decisions and to take action and authorises intervention by the Union when the objectives of an action cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States, but can be better achieved at Union level, ‘by reason of the scale and effects of the proposed action’1. 
     The purpose of including a reference to the principle in the European Treaties is also to ensure that powers are exercised as close to the citizen as possible.
     The European right determines also basic priorities of state power, influencing on forming of state form of the European countries.
     By this Treaty, the High Contracting Parties establish among themselves a European Union, hereinafter called'the Union'. 
     This Treaty marks a new stage in the process of creating an ever closer union among the peoples of Europe, in which decisions are taken as closely as possible to the citizen. 
     The Union shall be founded on the European Communities, supplemented by the policies and forms of cooperation established by this Treaty. Its task shall be to organize, in a manner demonstrating consistency and solidarity, relations between the Member States and between their peoples.
     To mark some actual, to date forms the states that  is acceptable to modern society and regulated by European Union. 
     Foremost, it is a republican form of rule. Exactly she guarantees electiveness of imperious organs,  participating of people in a management the state is by a necessity the phenomenon of modern democracy . 
     A right for European Union underlines priority of this power.
     A republic supposes differentiation of plenary powers of central government bodies, electiveness of their composition. Also a republican line-up supposes electiveness of organs of local self-government.
     At presence of legal type of the state to take place dividing of power into legislative, executive and judicial, that guarantees the most wide and independent latitudes of these state structures. 
     We will mark also such moment, as supremacies of right in a number of the states, as a rule, it guarantees that a law is higher than power of the state, and human rights here are priority for state power.
     The example of such state that combines in itself and republican form of rule and legal character at the democratic political mode is Russia.
     We will consider her public, authorities foremost, it is parliament that we attribute to the legislative branch of power, he has a two-tier structure, consists of two chambers, one of that gets out a population, the second is appointed by a president, but plugs in itself representatives from every subject of country.
     A government is attributed to the executive branch of power. A president in a country is shown out of the system of division of authorities. Also present and judicial authorities, combining in itself the courts of different instances - Constitutional, Arbitrage and Supreme.
     Thus, Russia fully combines in itself the basic principles set by European Union in the legislation2.
     Democratic political mode, supposes an observance and guarantee of human and citizen rights, that also finds the reflection in convention of European Union.
     Rights and freedoms of man are inalienable and steadfast, in particular to such rights it is possible to take a right on life, right of conscience, rights on the name, right on freedom of movement.
     However, it is needed to mark that is and category of rights that is regulated by every state individually, but at the same time, must correspond to the international legislation. To such rights attribute is a right to choose and be select in public authorities, right
     The peoples of Europe, in creating an ever closer union among them, are resolved to share a peaceful future based on common values.
     Conscious of its spiritual and moral heritage, the Union is founded on the indivisible, universal values of human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity; it is based on the principles of democracy and the rule of law. It places the individual at the heart of its activities, by establishing the citizenship of the Union and by creating an area of freedom, security and justice.
     The Union contributes to the preservation and to the development of these common values while respecting the diversity of the cultures and traditions of the peoples of Europe as well as the national identities of the Member States and the organisation of their public authorities at national, regional and local levels; it seeks to promote balanced and sustainable development and ensures free movement of persons, services, goods and capital, and the freedom of establishment.
     Every state intending to enter in the complement of ЕС directs a corresponding request in Advice of ЕС. Of presence of such request European parliament and national parliaments of countries are informed. 
     Advice, awarding judgement on the basis of principle of unanimity, after consultation with Commission and approval a corresponding decision accepts Parliament. Negotiations on a question European Commission conducts about an entry. A corresponding agreement and appendixes to him determine terms and procedures of ratification and entry in the complement of ЕС3. 
     The agreement about joining, approved by Advice, is passed on ratification, that takes place on the basis of constitutional procedures operating in the corresponding states. A decision is considered accepted,if it was approved both within the framework of ЕС and by the states - candidates on an entry. Simultaneously with signing of agreement about joining the date of kid-glove affair of states of candidate is determined in the complement of ЕС. The again accepted state assumes.
     In conclusion we will appeal and to principles of the European right.
     Exactly they are basis of becoming of the system of international law on the whole.Principle of supremacy. A question about correlation of right for European Union and national right arose up in the first-ever years of existence of European Union. There was a problem of law of administrations of European Union by participating countries with the dualistic system of right (Great Britain, Italy). Application of dualistic conception would mean to the right for ЕС, that states-members are right independently to decide a question about a place and role of corresponding normatively-legal acts of Associations in a national law and order. This position conflicts with bases of integration, creates the threat of integrity and to unity, and consequently, and to applicability of right for ЕС.
     Supremacy of right ЕС is the vitally important condition of existence of ЕС and development of European integration. It follows from nature of right for ЕС and not determined by the norms of national right. A law and order of ЕС are in a hierarchical relation higher in relation to a national law and order4 . 
     Principle of direct action. This principle means the direct operating and obligatory applicability of norms of right for ЕС on all territory of ЕС and in relation to all European legal subjects. Norms of right for ЕС are obligatory in all plenitude for all states of members, institutes of ЕС, physical and legal persons being under jurisdiction of the states - members of ЕС.
     Principle of direct action obligates states-members directly to apply the norms of right for ЕС regardless of which attitude of national imperious structures is toward adjusting at the level of ЕС of these legal relationships.
     Principle of direct action supposes that the norms of right for ЕС allot directly straight by rights and impose duties on private physical and legal persons. Each, who supposes that his rights and interests are broken as a result of the non-use or undue application of norm of right for ЕС, can apply national judicial bodies.
     Principle of integrating. Norms of right for ЕС are examined as the rights for states-members automatically integrated in the national systems. Principle of integrating means that all norms of right for ЕС are automatically inculcated in their national legal systems. 
     They are subject to application national authorities and courts in the same order and in the same volume, as well as corresponding norms of national right. The value of this principle is special it is important for countries with the dualistic mode of application of norms of international law.
     Thus, a right for European Union is based on the row of international principles making basis modern right. for the participating countries of Union, implementation of norms of his legislation is carried obligatory character, but here the most ideal model of the state will be republican, legal, with the democratic political mode, having a social orientation.
     
     
     
     
     List of literature
     1 Agreement on the European union. The consolidated text // is the European right: Studies. / Under L.М. Utnina. - М., 2000. 521-699.
     2.  Right for the European union : Studies. / Under S.U.Kashckina - М., 2004. p. 108.
     3. Introduction to the right for the European union : Studies. manual / Under S.U.Kashckina. - М., 2005.p . 69.
     4. А.Я. European union: integration and right. - М., 2000; 
     5. Davis К. is Right for the European union. Trudged. with an eng - К., 2005; Right for the European union : Studies. / Under S.U.Kashckina 
     6. Introduction to the right for the European union. p 74-75.
     7. Introduction to the right for the European union. p 90.
          1 Davis К. is Right for the European union. Trudged. with an eng - К., 2005; Right for the European union : Studies. / Under S.U.Kashckina 

           2 Right for the European union : Studies. / Under S.U.Kashckina - М., 2004. p. 108.

          3 Introduction to the right for the European union : Studies. manual / Under S.U.Kashckina. - М., 2005.p . 69.


           4 . Introduction to the right for the European union : Studies. manual / Under S.U.Kashckina. - М., 2005.p . 69.

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

