THE PRINCIPLE OF SUPREMACY IN EUROPEAN UNION LAW AND THE ROLE OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL COURTS OF MEMBER STATES
         The legal system of the European Union (EU, Union) is one of the largest in the world, whereas EU law is today one of the most significant factors uniting Europe. You must take into account the fact that currently the EU consists of 27 member States and a population of 500 million people. Thus, the EU legal order comprises the countries of both continental and common law system. It acts on the territory, where 23 official languages and all acts of Union are transferred to each of them. The functioning of a legal system within the Association that is neither a government nor a true Federation is impossible without compliance with certain legal principles. One of these principles is the principle of the rule. Since July 2013, after the entry in Croatia, a number of member States of the EU will increase to 28. Like the European Union as a whole, its legal system is a complex entity. The main component is the law of the European community, which typically also include the founding treaties and legal aspects of EU institutions, created in the framework of the European coal and steel community and Euro-atomic. In this work, we will scrutinize the main principles, system and sources of EU law, which is the basis of the legal system of the organization. 

PRINCIPLES OF EUROPEAN UNION LAW

         Principles of European Union law enshrined in the founding treaties and in the decisions of the European Court. The latter play a crucial role in the development of a detailed classification of the principles of EU law. The court framed and fixed in its decisions the main system began to operate and develop the legal system of the EU principles of European Community law. The principles of EU law include two groups: principles that determine the legal force of norms and sources of law in the EU, their relationship with national law of member States and General principles of law. 

PRINCIPLE OF SUPREMACY OF EU LAW

     The principle of supremacy of EU law means that the legal norms in law, take precedence over the rules laid down in the legislation of the individual member state. This principle covers not only the founding Treaty of the EU (as an international Treaty, they, in accordance with the constitutions of EU countries and most other countries, possess higher legal power than acts of "domestic" law), but all other EU legal acts (regulations, directives, decisions), and they are on the territory of each country the highest legal force, even if the country had voted against the adoption of this document. The European Court of justice is the main guarantor of observance of the rule of all legal acts of the EU. National courts in case of doubt, under the domestic law of a member state with EU law, make decisions on the basis of the founding treaties and EU legislation, or apply to the European Court of justice for a prejudicial inquiry.1 

THE PRINCIPLE OF DIRECT EFFECT OF EU LAW

      The principle of direct effect of EU law and the principle of supremacy, in the most complete serial form established by the decisions of the European court. This principle is the main difference of EU law from international law, norms which govern primarily the relations of States and international organizations. The regulations adopted by the institutions of the EU are acts of direct action: from the date of approval by the Council (Commission, Council, jointly with the European Parliament) and the entry into force of any EU regulation, its provisions become directly applicable law throughout the European Union binding on member States and individuals. With regard to articles of the EC Treaty for direct action rights need to be contained in them rules were set out clearly in the imperative and not optional due to the results of the future activities of members and institutions. If the article has the character of a General principle or Declaration sets out the objectives and activities of the institutions and of EU member States, due to the precise and unconditional indication of the specific rights and obligations arising in this regard from the state, citizens and legal entities, to be directly applicable, it will not. Thus, article of the EC Treaty, sets out the objectives of the EU and individual public policies are not directly applicable rules, i.e. do not provide citizens/legal entities of certain subjective rights and does not impose the duty. On the contrary, article 12, which prohibits the members States to increase or introduce new restrictions in mutual trade, is acting as "contains a clear and unconditional prohibition which is not positive and the negative duty [bodies of member States]. Moreover, this duty does not accompany the reservation, which places its execution in dependence on the adoption in national law of certain positive legislative measures. The very nature of this prohibition is a perfect match its ability to produce certain effects directly in legal relations of member States of their subjects" . Similar conditions of "clear and unconditional" formulating the rights and duties of States and individuals to give them power direct current source of law operates in relation to EU directives.


THE PRINCIPLE OF SUPREMACY AND ITS’ EFFECT ON THE JURISDICTION OF US MEMBERS

          The principle of supremacy of EU law has been existing for almost 50 years. During this period it attracted the attention of both EU bodies and member States, since this principle is in conflict with state sovereignty: Maxim regnum regno non praescribit leges, and inapplicable to the relations of the EU and member States. So, the need of a partial transfer of sovereign rights was the cause of the change in the Constitution of Slovenia before it joined the EU in 2004. In this work we are focusing on the principle of the rule in the form in which it was enunciated by the Court of the European Union (hereinafter - EUC) and reflected in the practice of the latter. Special attention is paid to the role of the constitutional courts of member States of the EU in the development of this principle and the interpretation of its content from the perspective of Slovenia.

BASIC FEATURES OF EU LEGAL ORDER

       The EU legal order consists of so-called primary law, including the fundamental principles and rules, and secondary law, which includes legal acts of the EU institutions. Due to the fact that the legislative competence of the EU institutions is governed by primary law, it must be in accordance with it. Therefore, from this point of view, secondary law of the Union is subordinated to its primary law. The primary sources of EU law are the Treaty on European Union (hereinafter the EC Treaty), the Treaty on the functioning of the European Union (hereinafter - the Treaty on the functioning of the EU), the Treaty establishing the European atomic energy community (hereinafter the Treaty on ESAA) and the protocols thereto, as well as the European Union Charter of fundamental rights. At the moment the EU has not acceded to the European Convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, despite the fact that the possibility of this annexation right provided for in the current wording of article 6 (2) of the EC Treaty. Secondary Union law is created in the process of adoption by EU bodies of legal acts under article 288 (1) of the Treaty on the functioning of the European Union, in particular regulations and directives.2 The most significant difference between regulations and directives is that regulations are binding in their entirety and are directly applicable in all member States, while directives are binding on the member States to whom they are addressed and only in relation to the result to be achieved but leave to the competence of national authorities the choice of form and methods to achieve this result . One of the key elements of the legal system of the EU is the European Court of justice in Luxembourg. Its main task is to ensure compliance with legal standards in the interpretation and application of treaties of the EU . There are several procedures in accordance with which disputes are dealt with in the court of the EU. The most important procedures are the filing of a claim by the European Commission under article 258 of the Treaty on the functioning of the EU in connection with the breach by member state of community law, as well as appeal courts and tribunals of member States with requests for a decision on the interpretation of Union law or the validity of acts adopted by EU institutions. 

THE RATIO OF EU LAW AND NATIONAL LAW

            In the literature the principle of supremacy (primacy) of EU law is often also referred to as the principle of the primacy (supremacy) of EU law. It is worth emphasizing that the principle of supremacy does not imply the existence of the EU Court authority to invalidate national law that contravenes EU law. This principle means that if between a norm of national law and a norm of EU law having direct effect, there is a contradiction that cannot be resolved with the appropriate interpretation of national law, national courts of member States should as a substitute for national law to apply EU law .In this context is the issue of direct effect of EU law, particularly in relation to directives, is of the great importance. The principle of the rule arose in the jurisprudence of the ECJ: in the founding treaties of the EU, this principle is not provided. The principle of the rule and to this day has not found its reflection in positive law of the EU (i.e. it was not included in the Treaty on the functioning of the EU nor the EC Treaty). However, it has been functioning since 1964. It was assumed that this principle will be expressly stipulated in the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe. However, the Treaty never entered into force and was replaced by the Lisbon Treaty , does not contain any explicit mention of the rule. Thus, the only document that contains a reference to the principle of the rule, is the Declaration on the rule, adopted in 2007 by the intergovernmental conference and annexed to the Lisbon Treaty, also adopted at the conference . This Declaration, in turn, refers to the opinion of the legal service of the EU Council on the rule of law in the EU. Treaty of Lisbon amending the Treaty on EU and the Treaty establishing the European community, signed at Lisbon on 13 December 2007. Through the Lisbon Treaty amended the EC Treaty and the Treaty establishing the European community, as well as changed the title of the latter to the Treaty on the functioning of the European Union. Thus, through the Lisbon Treaty, the existing European community and European Union were replaced by new European Union. Unlike the protocols to the treaties of the EU, Declaration to them are not binding. However, they can be taken into account by the ECJ when interpreting the relevant articles of the treaties. The Declaration of supremacy is the 17th Declaration, which is annexed to the Final act of the intergovernmental conference that adopted the Lisbon Treaty. The Declaration reads: "the Conference recalls that, in accordance with established practice, the Court of justice of the European Union treaties and normative acts of the Union adopted on the basis of the treaties have priority over the right of member States on the conditions stipulated by the judicial practice". The opinion of the legal service of the EU Council on June 22, 2007, contained in document 11197/07 (JUR 260). According to this conclusion, "the practice of the ECJ allows us to conclude that the rule of EU law is a fundamental principle of Community law. According to the position of the Court, this principle is inherent in the very special nature of the European community. At the time the Court first decision that marked the beginning of the formation of Court practice on this issue (judgment of 15 July 1964 in the case 6/64 "Costa V. E. N. E. L."), the principle of the rule was not mentioned in any Treaty. This situation persists to this day. However, the inclusion of the rule in any future Treaty in no way affect the existence of this principle and established practice of the ECJ".3 According to the Declaration, the EU treaties and EU law generally, take precedence over the right of States parties in accordance with established jurisprudence of the ECJ. As indicated above, the Declaration refers to the opinion of the legal service of the EU Council, according to which the principle of the rule is one of the key principles of European community law (now EU law), and the fact that the principle is not provided for in the Lisbon Treaty, is irrelevant to its existence and will not affect the existing jurisprudence of the ECJ. At the moment the constitutional court of Slovenia has never appealed to the European Court of justice with a request for a decision in a prejudicial manner.
           The question of interaction between EU law and national law occurs when the constitutional court of a member state decides on the unconstitutionality of any law that may be contrary to EU law. Such situation occurred in the case discussed below in which the constitutional Tribunal of the Republic of Poland accepted the provisions of some national laws unconstitutional, postponing the date of loss these regulations have legal force at a later date. Thus,  Polish faced the below problem: should the court in the case of data inconsistencies between provisions of EU law apply in accordance with the principle of supremacy of EU law (not national law) before the entry into force of the decision of the constitutional Tribunal on the unconstitutionality of such provisions. This issue was resolved by the EUC in the case "Krzysztof Filipiak against the Director of the office of tax service in Pozna?" in connection with the appeal of the Polish Voevodstvo administrative court in Pozna? with a request for a decision in a prejudicial manner. The subject matter of the main trial was the provisions of Polish law, providing for deduction of the amount of social insurance contributions from the tax base and not allowing a reduce amount of income tax on the amount of contributions to health insurance for those cases where the payment of such fees was made in another member state, even if deductions in respect of such amounts in another member state was not made . Recognizing the inconsistency of these provisions are enshrined in the Constitution the principles of equality and social justice, constitutional Tribunal of Poland has postponed the date of the loss these regulations have legal force at a later date. However, the provincial court, on the consideration of which was the case, felt it necessary to resolve the question of the compliance of the contested provisions of article 43 of the EC Treaty (now article 49 of the Treaty on the formation of the EU) and referred the question of interpretation of article 49 of the Treaty on the formation of the EU in the European Court of justice for resolution in a prejudicial manner . 
           In the view of the decision taken by the Constitutional Tribunal, the provincial court gave permission to the EUC the question of the admissibility of this interpretation of the principle of supremacy of EU law following from article 4 (3) of the EC Treaty and articles 49 (1) and 49 (2) of the Treaty on the formation of the EU , according to which this principle has precedence over the national Constitution, according to which the entry decisions of the constitutional Tribunal of the Republic of Poland in force was postponed to a later date . Voevodstvo is the largest administrative unit of Poland. Poznan is the capital of the Wielkopolska region. In response to the last question, the EUC clarified in its decision that in accordance with the principle of supremacy of EU law a national court of a member state is obliged to refuse to apply national legislation contrary to the provisions of the Treaty having direct effect. There is a conflict between a norm of national law and EU law does not require the recognition of provisions of national law null and void and means that the provision ceases to exist . Thus, the EU Court predictably held that if there is any conflict between EU law and national legislation "the principle of the rule of law obliges the national court to apply the law of and to refuse to apply conflicting provisions of national law, regardless of the decisions of the national constitutional court, whereby the time when the provisions deemed unconstitutional lose legal force, postponed to a later date". 
Let’s consider the supremacy of EU law and the interaction of national constitutions of member States with EU directives As already mentioned, the principle of the rule applies regardless of the position of the contested national law in the hierarchy of normative acts of the state. Thus, EU law takes precedence over national constitutions of member States, including in cases where the national Constitution is contrary to the provisions of the EU Directive. 
            In this regard it is worth mentioning the case of "Tanya Creil against the Federal Republic of Germany", leading to the change of the German Basic Law. The case was initiated in connection with a dispute arising upon receipt of Ms. Krill for voluntary service in the Federal armed forces, involving the use of weapons. After her application was rejected, Ms. Krill appealed to the Administrative court of Hannover alleging to the rejection of its application, the sole cause of which was her sex,thus the contrary to EU law. Furthermore, the Administrative court of Hanover appealed to the European Court of justice with a request for a decision in a prejudicial manner. The question referred to the EUC met with the provisions of Directive N 76/207 on the implementation of the principle of equality of men and women in matters of employment, vocational education, promotion and working conditions (hereinafter Directive 76/207) of the regulations of the German law, according to which women coming to volunteer in the armed forces, could only serve in positions of health workers or in the military band, but not in positions involving the use of weapons. The soldiers act (Soldatengesetz) and the Regulations on military service (Soldatenlaufbahnverordnung) were based on the provisions of article 12a of the German Basic Law  providing for the compulsory service of men in the armed forces of the state, and prohibiting under any circumstances, attract women to the service, involving the use of weapons. The EUC decided that the Directive 76/207 N "excludes the application of provisions of national legislation similar to the contested norms of German law prohibiting the carrying of women service in posts involving the use of weapons, and limiting the possibility of their employment only service in the military band or as health professionals. Given the fact that the contested norms of the national legislation relied on the provisions of the Basic Law, the EU Court judgment in this case confirmed priority of EU law over constitutional law. This decision was echoed in the literature and was the reason for the amendment of the Basic Law .4 Currently, paragraph 4 of article 12a of the German Basic Law provides a General prohibition on the coercion of women to the service, involving the use of weapons. Conclusion The principle of the rule remains one of the key principles of ensuring a uniform interpretation and application of EU law in all member States. In this regard, we can not ignore the important role played by national courts, including constitutional courts, in dialogue with the EUC and in applying EC law. In accordance with the rules established in Europe hierarchical system of constitutional courts of member States continues to occupy a Central place in the procedure of check of constitutionality of normative acts, however, will increase in the future, the number of constitutional courts, leading the dialogue with the EUC in the form of the submission of the request for a decision in a prejudicial manner, remains open. Nowadays law has become one of the most significant unifying factors in the EU. 
           However, to ensure the effective operation of laws and achieving justice required the courts,  we should no longer live in the area of Ovid Golden age in which justice is administered in the absence of laws and courts. Currently, when the need for laws and courts cannot be questioned, only the cooperation between national courts and the EUC in the framework of a structured legal system can provide justice, law and effective enforcement.Начало формы
Конец формы
Начало формы
Конец формы

1  Avbelj M. Supremacy or Primacy of EU Law - (Why) Does it Matter? // European Law Journal. 2011. N 17 (6). P. 744
2 Lenaerts K., Nuffel P. Van. Constitutional Law of the European Union. 2nd Edition.
3 ECJ. Krzysztof Filipiak v. Dyrektor Izby Skarbowej w Poznaniu. Case N C-314/08. Judgment of 19 November 2009. § 44.

4 Tanja Kreil v. Bundesrepublik Deutschland. Case N C-285/98. Judgment of 11 January 2000.

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

